docs: add Un-pythonic aspects of Fused page (#1043)
fusedio/fused-docs: docs/guide/working-with-udfs/udf-best-practices/unpythonic.mdx

    con = duckdb.connect()
    return con.execute("SELECT 1 AS a")  # DuckDB cursor — cannot be serialized
`}</CodeBlock>

:::danger Error
Result serialization failed: `ValueError: Return value not in an expected vector format (gpd.GeoDataFrame, pd.DataFrame, gpd.GeoSeries, pd.Series, shapely geometry) Was: <class '_duckdb.DuckDBPyConnection'>`
:::

<CodeBlock
  language="python"
  title="Recommended"
  showLineNumbers
>{`@fused.udf
def udf():
    import duckdb
    con = duckdb.connect()
    return con.execute("SELECT 1 AS a").df()  # DataFrame — serialized and returned
`}</CodeBlock>

## Leverage `udf.map()` for multi processing

[`@fused.udf`](/python-sdk/api-reference/fused-udf) turns your function into a [`Udf`](/python-sdk/api-reference/udf) object — by default, calling it submits a job to Fused's remote workers, not a local Python call. [`udf.map()`](/python-sdk/api-reference/udf#map) gives you flexibility over execution:

- `engine='remote'` (default) — fans out and spins up new UDFs
- `engine='local'` — runs multiple UDFs in parallel using the current UDF's available cores and memory

```python
pool = my_udf.map(list_of_inputs)
pool.wait()
results = pool.df()
```

> Use [`udf.map()`](/python-sdk/api-reference/udf#map) over `multiprocessing` — it's the idiomatic way to parallelize work in Fused and integrates directly with the execution engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We built [`udf.map()`](/python-sdk/api-reference/udf#map) as a simple way to parallelize jobs either locally in your current UDF or remotely by spinning up new compute as you need it on demand
```

See [Scaling out UDFs](/guide/working-with-udfs/udf-best-practices/scaling-out).

## Reuse UDFs with `fused.load()`

Reusing a UDF is done with [`fused.load()`](/python-sdk/api-reference/fused-load) with a UDF name or URL rather than a Python import:

```python
other_udf = fused.load("https://github.com/fusedio/udfs/tree/main/public/DuckDB_H3_Example")
```

You're not just importing the code — you're importing the whole UDF, which lets you:

- Inspect it: `other_udf.meta`
- Execute it directly: `other_udf(params)`
- Run it in parallel: `other_udf.map(list_of_inputs)`

> ## Use pre-installed packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fused environments come with predefined packages
```

---
id: unpythonic
title: Un-pythonic aspects of Fused
sidebar_label: Un-pythonic aspects
sidebar_position: 10
---

Fused UDFs look like Python functions but run in a managed, distributed environment. That environment imposes a few constraints that feel unusual if you're used to writing standard Python scripts.

## Imports must be inside the UDF

In regular Python you put imports at the top of the file. In a Fused UDF they must go **inside** the function body:

> ```python

Reviewer: - Use same code block for anti patterns: https://docs-staging.fused.io/pr/1043/guide/working-with-udfs/udf-best-practices/security/#use-secrets

Not recommended instead of wrong

# Wrong — import at module level
import pandas as pd

@fused.udf
def udf():
    return pd.DataFrame({"a": [1, 2, 3]})
```

```python
# Correct
@fused.udf
def udf():
    import pandas as pd
    return pd.DataFrame({"a": [1, 2, 3]})
```

Why: Fused serializes and ships your UDF function to a remote worker. Only the function body travels — the surrounding module scope does not. Any name referenced at module level won't exist on the worker when the function runs.

> ## PEP 8 line-length and style conventions are relaxed

Reviewer: Skip this one

PEP 8 was written for scripts and libraries — code that lives in files, is reviewed in editors, and is run locally. UDF code is written in Workbench, executed remotely, and is often short and self-contained. Strict PEP 8 compliance (79-character line limits, import ordering, etc.) is not enforced or expected.

Write readable code, but don't let a linter's module-level rules get in the way of the UDF's structure.

> ## Return types are limited

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fused serialises the outputs
```

> UDFs must return a value that Fused can serialize and send back to the caller. Anything that can't be serialized — a file handle, a database connection, an arbitrary class instance — will fail at return time. See [Return values](/guide/working-with-udfs/writing-udfs#return-values) for the full list of supported types.

Reviewer: Add example with code snippets

Reviewer: Send to this section: https://docs-staging.fused.io/pr/1043/guide/working-with-udfs/run-udfs-as-api#output-formats

> ## Avoid `multiprocessing` — use `udf.map()` instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Leverage `udf.map()` for multi processing 
```

> `multiprocessing` is not reliable inside Fused — the sandbox environment restricts forking. Generators and `yield` are also not supported, since Fused must serialize the return value before sending it back to the caller, and a lazy iterator can't be serialized mid-stream.

Reviewer: Use `udf.map(engine='local')` allows you to ru multiple UDFs in parallel by using available cores & memory of your current UDF

`udf.map()` gives you flexiblity:
- engine=`local` -> using current UDF resources
- engine='remote' (default) -> fans out and spins up new UDFs

The idiomatic alternative for both is [`udf.map()`](/guide/working-with-udfs/udf-best-practices/scaling-out), which fans work out across Fused workers:

```python
pool = my_udf.map(list_of_inputs)
pool.wait()
results = pool.df()
```

See [Scaling out UDFs](/guide/working-with-udfs/udf-best-practices/scaling-out).

## `@fused.udf` is not just a decorator

> `@fused.udf` turns your function into a `Udf` object with a different calling convention. By default, calling it submits a job to Fused's remote workers — not a local Python call. You can override this with `engine="local"` to run it in-process, but the object itself is no longer a plain Python function.

Reviewer: link to API reference

Reviewer: Remove this section + merge wiht one above

## `fused.load()` instead of `import`

> Reusing a UDF from another file or team member requires `fused.load()` with a URL or token string rather than a Python import:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reusing a UDF is done `fused.load()` with a UDF name or URL rather than a Python import:
```

Reviewer: Let's add why this matters:
- You can get info about your other udf: `other_udf.meta` -> Gives you additional info
- Execute it directly with `other_udf(params)`. This coudl be in paraller with `other_udf.map()`, etc. 

You're not jsut importing the code, you're importing the whole UDF, allowing you to also execute it

```python
other_udf = fused.load("https://github.com/fusedio/udfs/tree/main/public/DuckDB_H3_Example")
```

> ## Type annotations control routing, not just documentation

Reviewer: Gets a bit tricky, let's remove this section

In standard Python, type annotations are hints — they don't affect runtime behavior. In Fused, annotating a parameter with [`fused.types.Bounds`](/python-sdk/api-reference/fused-types#bounds) changes *how and when* the UDF is invoked: what bounding box is passed and how the UDF is called from the map. Choosing the wrong annotation changes the execution model, not just the type checker output.

## No `pip install` inside a UDF

> You can't run `pip install` from inside a UDF body. Packages must already be available in the Fused runtime environment. To add a package that isn't pre-installed, see [Install your own dependencies](/guide/advanced-setup/dependencies#beta-install-your-own-dependencies).

Reviewer: Fused provides a hosted environment with the most common python packages for data manipulation.

See the full list here: https://docs-staging.fused.io/pr/1043/guide/advanced-setup/dependencies/

Packages not supported? Reach out to `info@fused.io`
